---
date: 2024-05-17
---

# Hello World

Welcome to Pivot Atlas! Please check out the [main page](/) to learn what this project is all about.

This website is still under construction, and I would very much appreciate any feedback on the implementation, structure and content. Feel free to DM me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/AmitaiCo) or create an issue in the [GitHub project](https://github.com/korniko98/pivot-atlas/issues/new).

**Current status:**

- Artifact pages list most basic pivots :material-checkbox-marked-circle-outline:
- Artifact pages include explanations and descriptions of malicious usecases :material-checkbox-marked-circle-outline:
- Artifact pages include high-level descriptions of listed pivots :material-checkbox-marked-circle-outline:
- Artifact pages include some real-world examples for certain pivots :material-checkbox-marked-circle-minus-outline:
- Artifact pages include some URL and API placeholders for certain pivots :material-checkbox-marked-circle-minus-outline:
- Tool page includes tool comparison table :material-checkbox-marked-circle-outline:
- Tool page includes high-level descriptions of each tool type :material-checkbox-marked-circle-outline:
- Fingerprints page includes high-level descriptions of each fingerprint type :material-checkbox-marked-circle-outline:
- Map page includes full map of pivots mentioned anywhere on the website :material-checkbox-marked-circle-outline:

**Future plans:**

- Add more artifact types, including cloud-focused artifacts such as account IDs.
- Add more pivot types, especially sample-focused pivots such as registry keys, file names, etc.
- Add more URL and API placeholders for pivots.
- Add more real-world examples for pivots.
- Add call-outs to artifact pages with useful tips on how to make the most of each artifact.
- Clarify which tool type enables each pivot, with links to the relevant tool page section.
- Add case study pages with real-world summaries of investigations, including corresponding pivot maps.